This project guides you through implementing K-Means on the Iris dataset, a sample dataset without any labels for organismal comparison. Unsupervised learning functions off of the model's ability to recognize patterns without essentially any input from you besides values. The Iris dataset features 150 samples with four features and a basic implementation can separate them into three clusters. Therefore, we begin by assessing whether you have necessary libraries in your Python setup and organizing a new project folder without any errors or pre-established content. We then install the libraries necessary to ensure a proper run for both the training and prediction files. A small file downloads the Iris dataset and saves it to a folder with a .csv version of the document in data. The training file opens this .csv file, assesses missing values, standardizes/scales the features, and trains a K-Means model, printing a silhouette score so you can determine how well-clustered the three elements are before the model saves the trained model and the scaler to a folder in models. The prediction file loads the saved model and scaler and asks for four inputs to determine which of the three clusters each sample belongs to. While these clusters do not necessarily represent species, they are frequently aligned with the three iris types. To make a more distinguishable pattern, you can apply PCA and transform the data into two components for plotting. PCA assists with visualizing how clusters separate in a lower dimensional space. Alternatively, if you want something that does not require setting an ideal number of clusters, you can also test out DBSCAN. DBSCAN relies on density-based clustering which tends to work well when elements are not clustered into ideal shapes. If anything fails, chances are it's due to missing libraries or forgetting to download the dataset. Once everything runs appropriately, you can find PCA plotted images of K-Means clustering compared to DBSCAN clustering
